===================================================================
An Approach to Unbiased Subsample Interpolation For Motion Tracking
===================================================================

Abstract
========

Accurate subsample displacement estimation is a necessity in ultrasound
elastography because of the small motions that occur and application of a
derivative operation on displacements.  Many commonly used subsample estimation
techniques have a high amount of error because of bias.  In this paper we
examine an unbiased approach subsample displacement estimations that consists of
2D windowed-sinc interpolation with numerical optimization.  We find that a
Welch or Lanczos window with Nelder-Mead simplex optimization are well suited
for this purpose.  The strain signal-to-noise (SNRe) ratio is compared to other
common interpolation methods, and it is found that the SNRe is superior while
still providing reasonable computational performance.

Introduction
============

Digital images present challenges in ultrasound motion tracking.  The sampling
rates are barely sufficient to satisfy the Shannon-Nyquist sampling criterion.
For example, a sampling rate of 40 MHz on the Siemens S2000 scanner is very
close to the 20 MHz Nyquist frequency with its 18L6 transducer that purports to
respond to frequencies up to 18 MHz.  In the lateral direction, where resolution
is determined by transducer element spacing, sampling requirements are reduced.
However, the sampling rate is usually an order of magnitude smaller in this
direction.  Furthermore, noise is introduced into the post-deformation signal.
These conditions are a concern when trying to perform ultrasounds strain imaging
where displacement estimates need a precision on the order of micrometers; the
sample spacing in axial direction is only 19 Î¼m with a for a 40 MHz sampling
rate.  Cespedes et al. [Cespedes1995]_ examined the theoretical values for time
delay estimation using cross correlation with parameters from a typical
ultrasound system.  He found the standard deviation due to time quantization was 5.7
ns, which is much larger than the Cramer-Rao Lower Bound (CRLB) for the continuous
case, 0.024 ns.

This subsample delay estimation problem has been studied extensively in 1D in
the sonar and radar fields.  A number of techniques used the fact that phase of
the analytic signal's cross-correlation in the vicinity of the signal shift will
have a slope equivalent to the nominal centroid frequency and zero crossing at
the shift [Pesavento1999]_.  Grennberg and Sandell described a fast subsample
delay estimator calculated with the cross correlation of the delayed signal with
the Hilbert transform of the original signal [Grennberg1994]_.  Pesavento used a
similar approach by taking the cross-correlation of base-band analytic signals
from both the original and shifted signal [Pesavento1999]_.  The root is then
found with an iterative modified Newton method.  This approach only works for
narrowband signals with small time delays.  For larger time delays, strategies
have to be employed to prevent phase aliasing.  However, if these approaches can
be used, they are advantagous because they are very precise with minimal
computation that can be performed in a single step.


1D xcorr techniques

Instead of resampling and recalculation of the cross-correlation, curve fitting
can be applied.  For example a parabola [Foster1990]_ or cosine fit
[deJong1990]_ can be used. 
parametric techniques

bspline technique

rivaz [automatic differention?] brusseau

Cespedes sinc interpolation

